My comments to you today are based on 2nd Peter chapter 1 verse 19.
There it states, we have the prophetic word made more sure.
Yes, we are fortified by the prophetic word.
Actually, there is no one on earth today that is not affected by prophecy,
even if he is not aware of it.
What is a prophecy?
The Hebrew term for prophecy is not limited to predicting or foretelling something in the future.
It also includes divine commands or inspired instruction.
The Samaritan woman at the well recognized Jesus as a prophet because he revealed not future things,
but things about her past that he could not have known except by divine power.
The source of all true prophecy is Jehovah God.
At 2nd Peter chapter 1 verse 21, it is said of prophecy that men spoke from God as they were moved by Holy Spirit.
In addition to transmitting prophecy by Holy Spirit, Jehovah occasionally communicated such messages by means of angels.
One outstanding prophet was Daniel.
In about 536 before our common era, Daniel recorded a vision involving world powers having interaction with God's servants.
Turned with me to Daniel chapter 8 verses 21 and 22.
Daniel's vision was of animals representing governments.
Note this remarkable prophecy at Daniel chapter 8 verses 21 and 22.
The hairy male goat stands for the king of Greece, and the great horn that was between its eyes stands for the first king.
As for the horn that was broken, so that force stood up instead of it, there are four kingdoms from his nation that will stand up, but not with his power.
Interestingly, the Bible specifically named Greece, the ruler under which Greece became a world power in relation to God's people like a great horn was the Macedonian Alexander the Great.
Alexander's rulership was short-lived. He died young in the year 323 before our common era, 213 years after Daniel wrote his book.
Jehovah's angel had told Daniel that there would be four kingdoms from his nation that will stand up in place of the Greece Empire.
And chapter 11 verse 4 specifically states that the four regions would not go to his descendants.
Do the historical facts support these prophecies?
Yes, Alexander's two sons from different women, Heracles and Alexander the Fourth both were killed before they reached adulthood.
Isn't it astounding how precisely the prophecy came true that the rulership would not be passed on to Alexander's posterity?
But the prophecy also foretold that Alexander's empire would be divided up into four kingdoms.
Did that happen? Yes, one source listed 72 different military leaders under Alexander the Great, but the prophecy said only four would eventually rule in his place.
After Alexander's death there were constant fierce battles between these military leaders, but finally just four dynasties resulted, just as the Bible prophesied.
One was that of General Cassander, son of Antipater, in Macedonia and Greece.
The second was that of General Lecymachus in Asia Minor and European Thrace.
Third was the one of General Celucus, Nicotr, the Conqueror, who secured Babylon, media, Syria, Persia and the provinces eastward to the Indus River.
And finally the fourth was that of General Tholomy Sotr, son of Legus, who secured Egypt, Libya, Arabia, Palestine and Silis Syria.
These four proclaimed themselves King around 305 before our common era, 18 years after the death of Alexander.
The prophecy was so detailed, its fulfillment is fascinating proof of divine inspiration.
Does this not strengthen your faith and trust in the Bible?